
5

Automatic Zoom
Reinforcement Learning 
Mid Semester Project - 2025 
The  main  goal  of  this  mid-semester  assignment  is  to  summarize  the  key  topics  (theoretical  & 
practical)  that  we  have  covered  so far  in the  course  integrating  some theoretical and  practical 
aspects. 
MiniGrid env.   
In this exercise you will solve two variations of the “Minigrid” environment.  
MiniGrid is a lightweight, 2D grid-world environment with goal-oriented tasks. The agent in these 
environments  is  a  triangle-like  agent  with  a  discrete  action  space.  The  tasks  involve  solving 
different maze maps and interacting with different objects such as doors, keys, or boxes. 
Minigrid documentation:  
https://minigrid.farama.org/environments/minigrid/ 
 
In this assignment there are two minigrid environments: 
1. RandomEmptyEnv_10 
a. Solve the environment as is 
2. RandomKeyEnv_10 
a. Here,  you  can  use  up  to  two  reward  shaping  if  you  find  it  helpful.  (i.e.  you  can 
change the original reward of the env for two events) (For example: I try a reward 
that seems like: “if door was closed and now it is open, reward = 100” is this is a 
good reward?) 
You can find a demonstration of how to use/render the game (random actions) in the template 
notebook: 
https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1uG0T4chyOF2eISbONVB4Z5xdvXgyPlMn?usp=sharing 
 
 
 
a. Show your knowledge in tabular RL that covers what we have learnt so far. 
b. Try to “solve” it as fast as you can (less steps\episodes) - this is a competition part. 
 
● Analyze the env. MDP? Episodic? Discrete/continuous action? Discrete/continuous 
states? Fully/partial observable? 
● You need to solve it with different algorithms: MC, SARSA, Q-LEARNING. 
● Discuss the advantages/disadvantages of the approaches relating  to your minigrid 
mission. 
● Show relevant graphs comparing the different approaches. 
● How to represent the state? State size? Q-table size? 
● Different hyperparameters: Learning rate, Epsilon... 
● Choose discount factor. 
● Different initializations. 
● Different considerations for the two environments. 
● Approaches for Exploration-Exploitation tradeoff. 
● Graphs for the training stage and for the inference stage - Average steps to finish episode. 
● Evaluate both the good and bad points of your approach. 
● Use a specific cell to indicate the best training/inference parameters. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Guidelines: 
1. You are not allowed to use an existing RL library. Write the algorithm yourself.  
 
2. You are not allowed to use deep reinforcement learning approaches or RL algorithms 
that you haven't learnt in the course. 
 
3. For the most successful experiment, in each exercise, Show (In the notebook and report) 
the number of steps it took the agent to solve the environment, and a convergence 
graph (Rewards according to the number of episodes). All training outputs will be 
displayed in the notebook. 
4. Add video clips (In the notebook) that shows the agent in the middle of the training 
process and after the learning completed and converged. 
5. Even if you did not fully solve an environment - supply graphs describing the average 
rewards on X episodes (after finishing the training phase).  
Submit a final report in pdf format when your ID numbers are included in the file name. 
6. The final report must be a professional, self-contained scientific document that fully 
explains your methodology and results without the need to reference the code. 
7. You need to supply your code as Google Colab notebooks link. Such that the course 
team can run it. 
8. Write a clean code! Separate code cells and make extensive use of text cells. A sloppy 
notebook will result in a lower grade. 
9. Do not change anything in notebook after the final submission date. A notebook that 
has been ran/changed after the submission date will be automatically disqualified. 
 
 
 
 
The report will be submitted to the submission box. The file name of the report will contain your 
IDs as follows: report_ID1_ID2.pdf 
 
Do not forget to include the project title, your name and ID in this file. 
Max number of pages: 10 (but you don’t have to use them all). 
 
The  notebook  will  be  presented  in  an  orderly  and  clean  manner;  it  will  contain  separate  code 
cells and text cells that explain the actions performed. 
** Very important ** - when submitting, the notebooks will contain all the outputs relevant to 
the training results. 
 
To the submission box you will also submit an explainer file that contains instructions and 
explanations on how to operate your notebook and other relevant details that need to be 
known to those who want to use your notebook. 
 
Enter your details in the text file named details.txt, the address of your notebook, the names and 
ID of the two partners, as follows: 
 
  
To sum up, in the submission box, submit the following files: 
1. details.txt 
2. report_ID1_ID2.pdf 
3. explainer.txt 
 
 
Team size 
The project will be performed in groups of 2 students. 
 
 
 
 
Academic Integrity 
Team/Student  may  not  copy  code  from  other  teams/students.  Copying  answers  or  code  from 
other students for a project is a violation of the university’s honor code and will be treated as 
such.  All  suspicious  activity  will  be  reported  to  the  head  of  the  department  and  the  university 
authorities.  
Giving  code  to  another  student  is  also  considered  a  violation.  Students  are  responsible  for 
protecting their own work from copying.  
If you build some of your code on existing work and utilize existing code (your own or code found 
on the web), you must give proper attribution to all existing work that you used and make it clear 
what  you  changed  and  contributed.  Any  unattributed  or  uncited  work  that  you  use  will  be 
considered  a  breach  of academic  honesty  and  dealt  with  according to  the  course  policy  in  the 
syllabus.  
 
 